In this lecture, we will create a simple
calculator project will create a
calculator class that does addition of
two numbers and then we will unittest it
go to the Eclipse file menu say new go
to other type in maven and you will see
the maven results that are available
select the maven project click on next
leave the default options as is on the
first screen click on next again it will
be taken to a screen where you see the
different archetypes that are available
from maven the m2e plug-in provides all
of them for us each of these architects
creates a certain folder structures that
maven requires for a standalone project
for a standalone java project you should
select maven archetype pick start if
it was a web application project you can
scroll down and select this maven
archetypes web app select the maven
archetype quick start click Next here
we enter our group ID a group ID is
unique for a module in our application
or a team within which we can put all
our projects when the projects get saved
as artifacts to the repository they are
saved under this unique group IDs like
package in case of Java classes let's
give it com.bharath.maven.calculator
the artifact ID is the
project name so let's call it calculator
you can leave the version as is or you can
enter whatever version you want the
package name as you can see it has
already taken the group ID dot the
project name or the artifacts ID as the
package name for our projects you can
change it if you want to but I am going
to leave it as is click finish and the
eclipse m2e plugin has generated the
entire project structure which we need
for maven to work src main java where
our source code will go and SRC test
java where are our test classes the unit
test class
go and it also has a target directory
where it compiles deploys and does all
that under the target directory compiles
creates java files war files test
reports and all that under the target
directory and also the pom dot XML
which is the heart of maven this is the
configuration file all that information
which we have entered on the wizard has
gone into this file as project
coordinates it also has certain
properties for encoding and by default
it adds a junit dependency unfortunately
it still adds the old version of j unit
if you are lucky and if you see 4.4 here
leave it as is if not if you go to
google search for j unit maven
dependency click on the first link this
is the open-source maven repository
where all the open-source jars are
located just call it down a little on
the first tab under the maven tab you
can grab this entire dependency select a
control C go back to eclipse replace
this entire dependency here inside the
dependency section with what you have
copied so 4.4 is the current version we
have the latest j unit by default if you
see it also generates a class called ab
dot java and also a test for it under
the test folder i am going to delete
these two in the next lecture will be
creating a calculator from scratch and
we will be testing it from scratch so in
this lecture we have created a simple
eclipse maven project with all the
project structure we need and there is a
pom dot XML we have updated this form
dot XML with the current version of in
junit.